# neumoDVB #
## Installation ##

### Install prerequisite software ###

This software depends on several other software packages. If you wish to compile from source,
also a number of development packages are needed. The names of the packages depend on your linux
distribution.

The below software list may be incomplete or may contain no longer needed packages.
Please open a ticket if you discover mistakes

#### DragonOS FocalX (22.04) ####

The latest neumoDVB version may not work anymore because of an outdated libstdc++. You may need to
upgrade Ubuntu or install an older version of neumoDVB.

```bash
sudo  apt install -y libboost-all-dev libgtk-3-0 libgtk-3-dev curl libcurl4-openssl-dev  libwxgtk-media3.0-gtk3-dev \
gettext libexif-dev libavcodec-dev libavformat-dev libavutil-dev libswscale-dev   python3-configobj python3-cachetools \
python3-jinja2 python3-pip clang-format python3-sip-dev libconfig-dev libconfig++-dev libdvbcsa-dev  libmpv-dev \
freeglut3-dev libwxgtk3.0-gtk3-dev  python3-wxgtk-media4.0 python3-wxgtk-webview4.0 python3-wxgtk4.0 python3-scipy \
clang lsb-core lsb-release python3-regex liblog4cxx12 liblog4cxx-dev freeglut3 espeak
```
** During the above step, you will notice that libcurl4-openssl-dev well uninstall libcurl4-gnutls-dev. The package that it uninstalled may cause an issue elsewhere. It seems possible to immediately reinstall libcurl-gnutls-dev before proceeding (it will complain). I'll have to see about getting some help evaluating if the older package can be used. **

In addition, some python code needs to be installed using `sudo pip3 install <PACKAGE>`;
at least the following packages are needed:

```bash
sudo pip3 install mpl_scatter_density
```

```bash
wget https://apt.llvm.org/llvm.sh
chmod +x llvm.sh
sudo ./llvm.sh 16
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/clang clang /usr/bin/clang-16 100
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/c++ c++ /usr/bin/clang++-16 100
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-toolchain-r/test -y
sudo apt-get update -y
sudo apt-get install gcc-13
sudo apt-get install g++-13
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/g++ g++ /usr/bin/g++-13 13
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-13 13
```
Make sure to then run sudo update-alternatives --config gcc and sudo update-alternatives --config g++ and select 13 in both cases. 
Open and edit the neumodvb/CMakeLists.txt file force the right clang version by adding the -16 in the if statement

```bash
if(USE_CLANG)
  SET (CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER clang++-16)
  SET (CMAKE_C_COMPILER clang-16)
endif(USE_CLANG)
```

### Download and compile neumodvb ###

The software can be downloaded as follows

```bash
    cd ~/
    git clone --recursive https://github.com/deeptho/neumodvb
```

Next, build NeumoDVB as follows:

```bash
    cd ~/neumodvb
    mkdir build
    mkdir build_ext
    cd ~/neumodvb/build
    cmake ..
    make -j`nproc`
```
In case of problems, first check for missing pre-requisite software. For some of the pre-requisite
software, fairly recent versions are needed.


For troubleshooting, the following information may be useful:

* Some of the source code being compiled is generated by a python script `src/neumodb/neumodb.py`,
  which takes its input from configuration files `dbdefs.py` located in `src/neumodb/chdb`, and similar
  directories. The resulting code is placed in `build/src/neumodb/chdb` and similar places
* To speed up compilation, some C++ headers are pre-compiled. Usually this works fine, but in some
  cases, after making changes to header files, the precompiled headers become out of date and
  need to be rebuild, Usually  this will be clear from  compiler errors, but in rare cases, the
  result will be worse: neumoDVB will compile and then crash in strange ways.  When this happens,
  remove all  files under `/build`, run `cmake ..` again in the build directory.

  Alternatively, modify the CMakeList.txt files to remove header pre-compilation
* That being said, the normal and fastest way of recompiling after making changes to sources -- which should work
  in most cases -- is simply as follows:

```bash
    cd ~/neumodvb/build;
    make -j`nproc`
```

* In any case, if your distribution uses `ccache`, compilation will be much faster the second time around,
  even after you clear `build/` completely.
* NeumoDVB contains copies of some external software packages, some of which have been modified.
 * Specifically, the database code `lmdb` (renamed to `neumolmdb` to avoid confusion with any existing lmdb
  on your system) contains a few small, but crucial changes compared to the source (e.g., related to setting the
  `FD_CLOEXEC` flag.
 * The `wxsvg` library (renamed to `neumowxsvg`) has been more heavily modified. The modifications
  consist of added code to allow for efficient embedded of the mpv video player.


After neumoDVB has been built successfully, you can install it if you wish. Installation is optional:
you also run the software directly from the build tree. This makes it easier to debug problems and
most users indeed run into problems by installing neumoDVB (e.g., because older installed versions
interfere with newer non installed versions, or because changes in cmake or python lead to unexpected changes
in install paths).

**For this reason `make install` is deliberately disabled now***. By editing one line somewhere in the
code it can be re-enabled. Then installation works as follows:

```bash
    cd ~/neumodvb/build
    sudo make install
```

For packaging purposes, commands like `make install DESTDIR=/tmp/temporary_location` also work fine.


### Install blindscan drivers ###

neumoDVB can work with the regular linuxDVB drivers and supports all cards supported by these drivers.

If you own a supported card, it is best to install the neumo blindscan kernel drivers.
These drivers are available at
[https://github.com/deeptho/blindscan](https://github.com/deeptho/blindscan).

Without these drivers, features like blindscan and spectral analysis will not work.
neumoDVB has not been tested with the regular kernel drivers. Crashes may occur if you try
to use unsupported features. These are bugs. Report them on the issue tracker.
